well we begin with breaking news just
north of Rafa in southern Gaza two
journalists have been injured in an
Israeli drone strike alaz correspondent
isal Abu is one of them cameraman Ahmed
Mata was also hit and Mata we understand
is in serious condition both of them
have been transferred to the European
hospital for treatment a doctor at the
European Hospital in clunas has given an
update on is abu's
condition alzer's correspondent is Abu
Amar arrived at the makeshift hospital
after suffering severe injuries he was
targeted by a drone missile close to the
hospital upon examination his right leg
was already severed in addition to
shrapnel all across his chest and head
as well as his left leg we suspect his
femoral artery is cut off at the bottom
of his leg we administered the necessary
first aid before transferring him to the
European hospital where he was rushed to
the operation room he was bleeding
heavily lost a lot of blood to the
degree that has blood pressure and pulse
were not readable this means he is in a
very critical condition and may lose his
life as a result of the severe
Hemorrhage well our correspondent honey
Mahmud joins us live from the ground in
Rafa in the South honey tell us a little
bit more about what's going on it sounds
like a really critical
[Music]
situation yes Nastasia and this is uh
the
intense uh situations that are getting
tougher and tougher by the hour here in
RAF City just within the past couple
hours more displaced families in
Northern Rafa City experience yet one
more time the horror of unpredictable
falling bombs as a drone fired the
missile targeting two journalists who
were doing field work documenting the
difficult living conditions and the the
experiences that the this place families
have been living through since the
beginning of the war correspondent and
colleague AB from Al jazer was targeted
directly by a missile fired by a drone
along with his cameraman both of them
were rushed to a naar hospital a small
size Hospital largely unprepared for the
kind of injuries that is and his his
cameraman sustained they were
transferred to Gaza European hospital
where they underwent a an immediate
surgeries in which had no the doctor had
no other choice but make a tough
decision to amputate his leg from the
knee down as it was pretty much
shattered all the bones shattered to the
point it was only a skin that attach it
uh to the remaining part of his his body
tough situations on the ground people
are panicking there's an increased level
of concern and fear right now and PE
people Express
Express frustration that this is only
more indications of what's going to
happen next as the threats of ground
invasions are still going on and being
suppressed publicly by the Israeli
military and its political
leadership Hy Mahmud there with the
latest for us from the ground in Rafa
and Southern Gaza thank you honey and
please stay safe
yourself well the government media
office in Gaza has reacted to the
targeting of journalist
they've said we denounce and condemn in
the strongest terms the Israeli
occupation Army targeting of the Alero
crew for the fifth time in a complete
crime in violation of international law
the targeting comes within the framework
of intimidation of journalists and a
failed attempt obscure the truth and
prevent media coverage of the
occupation's crimes against children
women and civilians while we can speak
to Fran marovich he is the executive
director of the international press
Institute he joins me now from Vienna FR
from the images we're getting our
correspondent is clearly in a flack
jacket marked press in your mind is
there any doubt that journalists have
being targeted in this
war um what we have seen so far is I've
seen most of the pictures of the
journalists who were killed or injured
on the ground wearing the same blue
press jacket helmets I spoke to your
colleague Carmen jar who was herself
injured in a air strike Israeli air
strike was also in a marked car we are
seeing journ clearly targeted because
the Press symbols used to be defense it
used to be a sign of protection now it
seems to be a Target well according to
the International Federation of
journalists I was looking at the numbers
they have 92 Palestinian journalists or
media workers killed four Israeli three
Lebanese there's been a lot of criticism
shall we say of double standards do you
think that the global reaction would be
different if these were Western
journalists
I think uh I mean from my organization
we are completely outraged by this
situation we've been calling out this as
the worst crime against journalists in
the history of our organization and my
organization has been monitoring press
freedom for almost 75 years and this is
the worst attack we have seen on
journalists in any conflict this is the
worst killing of journalists in the
shortest amount of time so we are
definitely calling it out and I'm very
proud of my executive board which is
composed of 25 editors from all around
the world from United States Korea Japan
Philippines including the Nobel Peace
Prize Winner mariaa South Africa they
are also expressing their solidarity
with journalists in Gaza in this
appalling situation who are under this
terrible attack as you say this war in
Gaza has been the deadliest ever for
journalists but we know that the
families have also been targeted is that
something we've seen in other
conflicts no I don't think we've seen
deliberate targeting of uh journalist
families in other conflicts and here
there is far too many cases to be seen
as uh accidents we have also seen uh
reports of journalists receiving threats
on their mobile devices um and then
their families being attacked um so this
is if you collect and this is something
an important role that press Freedom
organizations are doing like my own
collecting evidence collecting all the
documents with regards to this killing
to try and show a deliberate attempt and
a deliberate attack on the press in
order to silence the Press you talk
about collecting evidence but given the
difficulties around access at the moment
how easy is it to even keep track of
journalists deaths and
injuries it's it's extremely difficult
as you point out the situation is
appalling and one thing that adds to the
situation is the fact that Israel is
blocking other journalists from entering
the Gaza region so we can only have the
reporting by the Palestinian journalists
who are there on the ground no other
journalists have been allowed in which
is again another restriction on uh press
Freedom would it be fair to say then
that this has also become an information
War fight to try to dominate The
Narrative that's I think the case in
every war unfortunately uh in every War
uh there is an attempt to control the
narrative but what we are seeing here is
quite clear steps of attacking killing
threatening journalist and then
preventing other journalists from
entering and Reporting fr marovich the
executive director of the international
press Institute thank you for joining us
on aler sir thank you very much and
solidarity to your
colleagues